CAR RENTAL FRANCHISE 


The focus of this software will be to manage a car rental franchise. The software should keep data about all the cars, such as car model, year of production, color, transmission type (automatic/manual), price per day, fuel type and the number of doors and seats. At the same time, we need to keep track of the reservations by date, time and location.


The application will have a five-level user system: Administrator, Car Rental Agent, Customer, Driver. Each will have different  views and usage of the software. Each of the users has a username and a password to enter in the software (obviously a role as well). 
Administrator -> The administrator has the right to manage almost everything that agents and drivers do. Beside  them, he has the right to manage the employees, by registering, modifying, and deleting them. He may keep data about them such as: name, birthday, id, phone number, email, salary,  access level, and other information about them. The software should also provide to him data about total incomes (total cars rented and the total made by that) and total cost (total of items bought and staff salaries) during a period.


Car Rental Agent -> The car rental agent has the right to view the cars that are available and make reservations and create bills for the cars rented and enter the rental period, the time, the place and it should provide the agents the contract to be printed and signed by them and the customer. The software should provide him the total amount  of the bill and it should be in printable format. If the car is already rented, it should give a notification to the agent. It should also give them the opportunity to check the location of the cars through a GPS device installed in every car. They also should be able to get a notification for the day’s reservations. They should be able to check for fines that the cars may get during the rental period and get the customer to pay for it.


Customer -> The customer can make a reservation through the website. They need to log in or sign up in order to do so. They can see the cars available and make the reservation through filling the name, surname, birthday, card id, email and phone number (these are info that they should give to the agents if the reservation is made through them). They have a section to pay through credit card and decide the time, date and the location of the pick up. If they get fines, they have to pay for them when returning the car. There are three levels of customers based on their subscription: regular(free version), premium and platinum. Paid levels of customers have extra features and can also rent special cars. Regulars can only rent the cars that are made available to them, premiums can pick the car from the catalog while platinum can also rent sport’s cars.
**We would like to give the customers that make 5 rentals, a discount on their upcoming rentals. 


Driver -> The driver should have the opportunity to view the reservation, but not change them. This way, they have the information needed to take the cars to the pick up location and can check through a checkbox whether the car has been delivered or not. He is also responsible for checking the car before and after delivering it to the customer in order to make sure that the car is in good condition. This has another check box where he checks if the extended features in the car are returned and if it is in good condition.